Day 7 Discussion 

c# 

Questions : 

c# --1.0..........11.0   xxx .net framework 

char p='a';
string s1="anurag";

String 
string 

.net standard
.net framework
.net core 


OOPS 

OOA,  OOD,  OOP

class : collection of member variables and member functions 
        real time data
        
object : represent the class 

int a;

class object ; 

4 pillars/features : 
   inheritance : parent class, child class 
      types : single level/ simple / single inheritance
              multi level inheritance
              multipathxxxxxxxx   multiple xxxxxxxxxx
              hierarchical 
              hybrid 

   polymorphism :  many -forms
        types : design time / function overloading , operator overloading 
                run time    / function overriding 


   
   encapsulation
   abstraction 
Functions : 
1. public void          object 
2. static void          directly called 
3. public static void   directly called 


static ---only inside the class
public -- inside and outside the class


Encapsulation is defined as the wrapping up of data under a single unit. It is the mechanism that binds together code and the data it manipulates. In a different way, encapsulation is a protective shield that prevents the data from being accessed by the code outside this shield.

Technically in encapsulation, the variables or data of a class are hidden from any other class and can be accessed only through any member function of its own class in which they are declared.
As in encapsulation, the data in a class is hidden from other classes, so it is also known as data-hiding.
Encapsulation can be achieved by: Declaring all the variables in the class as private and using C# Properties in the class to set and get the values of variables.

Data Abstraction is the property by virtue of which only the essential details are exhibited to the user. The trivial or the non-essentials units aren’t exhibited to the user. 

Data Abstraction may also be defined as the process of identifying only the required characteristics of an object ignoring the irrelevant details. The properties and behaviors of an object differentiate it from other objects of similar type and also help in classifying/grouping the objects.


Abstract classes : 

abstract keyword for class 
atleast 1 abstract method 
any number of non abstract methods

--- can not create object of abstract class



types of classes : 
1. static class
2. partial class
3. abstract class 
4. sealed class 

access specifiers : 
1. private
2. public
3. protected
4. internal
5. protected internal 


override : 
                virtual           override
                abstract          override 

Interfaces : 
collection of pure abstract functions
or collection of only function signatures / only function names 
interface keyword 

interface objects can not be created 

types : implicit ,                          explicit
        without interface name            with interface name 




































